# Release Notes for v0.16.0

Release Date: September 26th, 2025

This release is based on [3.21.0](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/releases/tag/3.21.0) of Kata Containers
and [v0.11.0](https://github.com/confidential-containers/enclave-cc/releases/tag/v0.11.0) of enclave-cc.

Trustee and the guest components use KBS protocol v0.4.0.

Please see the [quickstart guide](https://confidentialcontainers.org/docs/getting-started/) or [project documentation](https://confidentialcontainers.org/docs) for more information.

## Deprecation Notices
* Support for process-based confidential computing via enclave-cc will be removed in the v0.18.0 release.
  The enclave-cc project will be archived.
* This will be the last release of CoCo and Trustee that supports `simple` attestation tokens.
  Today, EAR attestation tokens are the default, but Trustee can be configured to use `simple` tokens.
  This option will be removed.

## Breaking Changes

* Previously the Init-Data was set for a pod via the `io.katacontainers.config.runtime.cc_init_data` annotation.
  Now the `io.katacontainers.config.hypervisor.cc_init_data` annotation must be used.

## What's New

* The affirming resource policy now checks that every submod is affirming. With multi-device attestation,
  KBS policies should be aware of all submods.
* Experimental support for attesting some NVIDIA GPUs, such as the H100. Either ITA or the Trustee
  Attestation Service can be used to verify the device evidence, with some limitations.
* Experimental support for using pre-provisioned VMs in cloud-api-adaptor via "bring-your-own-machine (BYOM) provider
* Runtime measurements can be extended from inside a workload container using a REST API.
* Improved support for runtime measurements with AAEL on TDX
* Trustee supports AMD-SNP guests with report version 5.
* Additional/improved TCB claims generated by TDX verifier.
* Extractor modules can now receive configuration if required.
* SWID/RIM-IM extractor improved.
* Confidential guest kernel updated to v6.16.7 with certain security-focused configs.
* CSV verifier supports AAEL.
* Eventlog parsing supports SM3 hashes.
* A default GPU attestation policy is provided by Trustee, but it is very limited.
* eHSM sealed secret backend no longer enabled by default.
* evidence-getter tool now exposes primary and additional evidence.

## Bug Fixes

* Fixed issue where Init-Data checks could be maliciously bypassed when using dm-verity rootfs, such as with the base `kata-qemu-tdx` runtime. [GHSA-989w-4xr2-ww9m](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/security/advisories/GHSA-989w-4xr2-ww9m)
* Fixed issue with attestation service policy endpoint permissions
* Fixed issue with AR4SI vectors containing underscores
* Various RUST advisories resolved by updating crates.

## Hardware Support

Attestation is supported and tested on three platforms: Intel TDX, AMD SEV-SNP, and IBM SE.
Not all features have been tested on every platform, but those based on attestation
are expected to work on the platforms above.

Make sure your host platform is compatible with the hypervisor and guest kernel
provisioned by CoCo.

This release has been tested on the following stacks:

### AMD SEV-SNP

* Processor: AMD EPYC 7413
* Kernel: 6.16.1
* OS: Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS
* k8s: v1.33.0 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.6.0

### Intel TDX

* Kernel: [6.8.0-1028-intel](https://git.launchpad.net/~kobuk-team/ubuntu/+source/linux-intel/tree/?h=noble-main-next)
* OS: Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
* k8s: v1.30.2 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.0.4-0.20230601165947-6ce0bf390ce3

### IBM Secure Execution for Linux

* Hardware: IBM Z16 LPAR
* Kernel: 6.8.0-60-generic
* OS: Ubuntu Ubuntu 24.04.2 LTS
* k8s: v1.31.1 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.7.1

## Limitations

The following are limitations and known issues with this release.

* Credentials for authenticated registries are exposed to the host.
* Not all features are tested on all platforms.
* Nydus snapshotter support is not mature.
  * Nydus snapshotter sometimes fails to pull an image.
  * Host pulling with Nydus snapshotter is not yet enabled.
  * Nydus snapshotter is not supported with enclave-cc.
  * There is an experimental option to force guest image pull without a snapshotter.
    This is also not mature.
* Pulling container images inside guest may have negative performance implications including greater resource usage and slower startup.
* `crio` support is still evolving.
* Platform support is rapidly changing
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* Complete integration with Kubernetes is still in progress.
  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/confidential-containers/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.
