# Release Notes for v0.11.0

Release Date: November 25th, 2024

This release is based on [3.11.0](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/releases/tag/3.11.0) of Kata Containers
and [v0.11.0](https://github.com/confidential-containers/enclave-cc/releases/tag/v0.11.0) of enclave-cc.

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for
definitions of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new

* Sealed secrets can be exposed as volumes
* TDX guests support measured rootfs with dm-verity
* Policy generation improvements
* Test coverage improved for s390x
* Community reached 100% ("passing") on OpenSSF best practices badge


## Hardware Support

Attestation is supported and tested on three platforms: Intel TDX, AMD SEV-SNP, and IBM SE.
Not all feature have been tested on every platform, but those based on attestation
are expected to work on the platforms above.

Make sure your host platform is compatible with the hypervisor and guest kernel
provisioned by coco.

This release has been tested on the following stacks:

### AMD SEV-SNP

* Processor: AMD EPYC 7413
* Kernel: [6.8.0-rc5-next-20240221-snp-host-cc2568386](https://github.com/confidential-containers/linux/tree/amd-snp-host-202402240000)
* OS: Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS
* k8s: v1.30.1 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v4.5.4

### Intel TDX

* Kernel: [6.8.0-1004-intel](https://git.launchpad.net/~kobuk-team/ubuntu/+source/linux-intel/tree/?h=noble-main-next)
* OS: Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
* k8s: v1.30.2 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.0.4-0.20230601165947-6ce0bf390ce3

### Secure Execution on IBM zSystems (s390x) running LinuxONE

* Hardware: IBM Z16 LPAR
* Kernel: 5.15.0-113-generic
* OS: Ubuntu 22.04.1 LTS
* k8s: v1.28.4 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.3.0

## Limitations

The following are known limitations of this release:

* SEV(-ES) does not support attestation.
* Credentials for authenticated registries are exposed to the host.
* Not all features are tested on all platforms.
* Nydus snapshotter support is not mature.
  * Nydus snapshotter sometimes fails to pull an image.
  * Host pulling with Nydus snapshotter is not yet enabled.
  * Nydus snapshotter is not supported with enclave-cc.
* Pulling container images inside guest may have negative performance implications including greater resource usage and slower startup.
* `crio` support is still evolving.
* Platform support is rapidly changing
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* Complete integration with Kubernetes is still in progress.
  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices.
    * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which reached 100% of `Passing` criteria as of this release!
    * Our next goal will be to complete `Silver` criteria. In reaching `Passing` status we also arrived at 11% of `Silver` criteria.
e Container metadata such as environment variables are not measured.
* The Kata Agent allows the host to call several dangerous endpoints
    * Kata Agent does not validate mount requests. A malicious host might be able to mount a shared filesystem into the PodVM.
    * Policy can be used to block endpoints, but it is not yet tied to the hardware evidence.

## CVE Fixes

None
