# Release Notes for v0.10.0

Release Date: September 27th, 2024

This release is based on [3.9.0](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/releases/tag/3.9.0) of Kata Containers
and [v0.10.0](https://github.com/confidential-containers/enclave-cc/releases/tag/v0.10.0) of enclave-cc.

This is the first release of Confidential Containers which has feature parity with CCv0.

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for
definitions of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new

* Support to pull and verify `cosign`-signed images
* Trusted image storage on guest
* Support Intel Tiber Trust Services as the verifier with Trustee for both Kata bare metal and peer-pods deployments
* Init-data support for peer pods
* Image-rs support for whiteouts and for layers with hard-link filenames over 100 characters
* enclave-cc updated to Ubuntu 22.04 based runtime instance

## Hardware Support

Attestation is supported and tested on three platforms: Intel TDX, AMD SEV-SNP, and IBM SE.
Not all feature have been tested on every platform, but those based on attestation
are expected to work on the platforms above.

Make sure your host platform is compatible with the hypervisor and guest kernel
provisioned by coco.

This release has been tested on the following stacks:

### AMD SEV-SNP

* Processor: AMD EPYC 7413
* Kernel: [6.8.0-rc5-next-20240221-snp-host-cc2568386](https://github.com/confidential-containers/linux/tree/amd-snp-host-202402240000)
* OS: Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS
* k8s: v1.30.1 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v4.5.4

### Intel TDX

* Kernel: [6.8.0-1004-intel](https://git.launchpad.net/~kobuk-team/ubuntu/+source/linux-intel/tree/?h=noble-main-next)
* OS: Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
* k8s: v1.30.2 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.0.4-0.20230601165947-6ce0bf390ce3

### Secure Execution on IBM zSystems (s390x) running LinuxONE

* Hardware: IBM Z16 LPAR
* Kernel: 5.15.0-113-generic
* OS: Ubuntu 22.04.1 LTS
* k8s: v1.28.4 (k3s)
* Kustomize: v5.3.0

## Limitations

The following are known limitations of this release:

* SEV(-ES) does not support attestation.
* Sealed secrets only supports secrets in environment variables.
* Credentials for authenticated registries are exposed to the host.
* Not all features are tested on all platforms.
* Nydus snapshotter support is not mature.
  * Nydus snapshotter sometimes fails to pull an image.
  * Host pulling with Nydus snapshotter is not yet enabled.
  * Nydus snapshotter is not supported with enclave-cc.
* Pulling container images inside guest may have negative performance implications including greater resource usage and slower startup.
* `crio` support is still evolving.
* Platform support is rapidly changing
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* Complete integration with Kubernetes is still in progress.
  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.
  * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which remained at 75% at the time of this release.
  * Community has adopted a security reporting protocol. The status of this is:
    * The operator now uses CodeQL for static scans, and it will be added for all other Go-based repositories in the next release.
    * Dependencies are now better handled with automatic updates using dependabot.
    * Static scan for Rust-based repos will be "N/A".
* Container metadata such as environment variables are not measured.
* The Kata Agent allows the host to call several dangerous endpoints
    * Kata Agent does not validate mount requests. A malicious host might be able to mount a shared filesystem into the PodVM.
    * Policy can be used to block endpoints, but it is not yet tied to the hardware evidence.

## CVE Fixes

None
