# Release Notes for v0.22.0

Release Date: July 22nd, 2026

This release is based on [4.0.0](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/releases/tag/4.0.0) of Kata Containers.
This Kata release adopts the Rust shim as the default for many runtime classes.
Confidential Containers still uses the Go shim for now, but will transition in the future.

This release uses v0.21.0 of Trustee and guest components.
Trustee and the guest components use KBS protocol v0.4.0.

Trustee and guest components use Rust v1.90.0.

Please see the [quickstart guide](https://confidentialcontainers.org/docs/getting-started/) or [project documentation](https://confidentialcontainers.org/docs/) for more information.

## Breaking Changes

* Trustee has a new admin authentication framework. Now the KBS client is invoked
with an admin token rather than an admin private key.

## Deprecation Notices
* The CAA docker provider was removed.
* The Fedora-based mkosi-built CAA podvm image has been removed.
* The packer-built CAA podvm image has been removed.
* The CAA csi-wrapper component was removed.
* In-toto reference value extractor removed from RVPS
* The warning about simple tokens being deprecated has been removed. Simple token support was dropped in v0.16.0.

## What's New

* Trustee Helm Chart introduced
* Improvements to Intel verifier (support for offline/air-gapped verification collateral, dropped the dependency to QCNL lib)
* Improvements to Hygon DCU verifier (supports multiple devices)
* Improvements to s390x verifier (use SHA-512 for report data)
* Redis/Valkey storage backend added to Trustee.
* Improved support for TLS configuration in Trustee
* Added AWS Secrets Manager resource backend to Trustee
* Added gRPC Health service endpoints for RVPS and AS and `/healthz` API for KBS
* Attestation tokens now have an issuer claim
* Attestation Service exposes token signing keys via well-known JWKS endpoint.
* Added Trustee CI dashboard
* Support plugins via the resource URI 
* Improve image unpacking in image-rs
* Allow runtime data to be set as base64 when using ASR
* Added interface to ASR to get additional (device) evidence from workload 

## Hardware Support

Attestation is supported and tested on three platforms: Intel TDX, AMD SEV-SNP, and IBM SEL.
Not all features have been tested on every platform, but those based on attestation
are expected to work on the platforms above.

Make sure your host platform is compatible with the hypervisor and guest kernel
provisioned by CoCo.

This release has been tested on the following stacks:

### AMD SEV-SNP

* Processor: AMD EPYC 7713
* Kernel: 6.16.0
* OS: Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
* k8s: v1.34.2 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.7.1
* Containerd: v1.7.29

### Intel TDX

* Kernel: 6.17.0-14-generic
* OS: Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS
* k8s: v1.36.2 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.7.1

### IBM Secure Execution for Linux (SEL)

* Hardware: IBM z17 LPAR
* Kernel: 6.8.0-136-generic
* OS: Ubuntu 24.04.2 LTS
* k8s: v1.36.2 (Kubeadm)
* Kustomize: v5.8.1

### NVIDIA

There are two NVIDIA runners.

* Hardware: AMD EPYC 9274F and NVIDIA Corporation GH100
* Kernel: 7.0.0-15-generic
* OS: Ubuntu 26.04
* k8s: v1.34.1
* Kustomize: v5.7.1
* Containerd: v2.3.0

## Limitations

The following are limitations and known issues with this release.

* Credentials for authenticated registries are exposed to the host.
* LUKS-based secure storage provides integrity protection, but not replay protection.
* Not all features are tested on all platforms.
* Guest pull with nydus snapshotter sometimes fails.
* Guest pull may have negative performance implications.
* `crio` support is still evolving.
* Containerd versions older than v2.3.x may have issues with guest pull.
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* A secure Kata agent policy must be used to protect the guest, but this may not support some Kubernetes commands, such as exec.
