# Release Notes for v0.5.0
Release Date: 2023-04-14

> **Warning**
> This release includes breaking changes to the format of encrypted images. See below for more details.
> Images that were encrypted using tooling from previous releases will fail with this release.
> The process for validating signed images is also slightly different.

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for a
definition of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new
- Process-based isolation is now fully supported with SGX hardware added to enclave-cc CI
- Remote hypervisor support added to the CoCo operator, which helps to enable creating containers
as ‘peer pods’, either locally, or on Cloud Service Provider Infrastructure.
See [README](https://github.com/confidential-containers/cloud-api-adaptor/blob/v0.5.0/README.md) for more information and installation instructions.

- [KBS Resource URI Scheme](https://github.com/confidential-containers/attestation-agent/blob/main/docs/KBS_URI.md) 
is published to identify all confidential resources.
- Different KBCs now share image encryption format allowing for interchangeable use.
- Generic Key Broker System (KBS) is now supported. This includes the [KBS](https://github.com/confidential-containers/kbs)
itself, which relies on the [Attestation Service (AS)](https://github.com/confidential-containers/attestation-service)
for attestation evidence verification. Reference Values are provided to the `AS` by 
the [Reference Value Provider Service (RVPS)](https://github.com/confidential-containers/attestation-service/blob/main/docs/rvps.md).
Currently only TDX and a sample mode are supported with generic KBS. Other platforms are in development.
- SEV configuration can be set with annotations.
- SEV-ES is now tested in the CI.
- Some developmental SEV-SNP components can be manually enabled to test SNP containers without attestation.

## Hardware Support
Confidential Containers is tested with attestation on the following platforms:
- Intel TDX
- AMD SEV(-ES)
- Intel SGX

The following platforms are untested or partially supported:
- IBM Secure Execution (SE) on IBM zSystems (s390x) running LinuxONE

The following platforms are in development:
- AMD SEV-SNP

## Limitations
The following are known limitations of this release:

- Platform support is currently limited, and rapidly changing
  * Image signature validation with AMD SEV-ES is not covered by CI.
  * s390x does not support cosign signature validation
- SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
- Attestation and key brokering support varies by platform.
  * The generic KBS is only supported on TDX. Other platforms have different solutions.
- The format of encrypted container images is still subject to change
  * The [oci-crypt](https://github.com/containers/ocicrypt) container image format itself may still change
  * The tools to generate images are not in their final form
  * The image format itself is subject to change in upcoming releases
  * Image repository support for encrypted images is unequal
- CoCo currently requires a custom build of `containerd`
  * The CoCo operator will deploy the correct version of `containerd` for you
  * Changes are required to delegate `PullImage` to the agent in the virtual machine
  * The required changes are not part of the vanilla `containerd`
  * The final form of the required changes in `containerd` is expected to be different
  * `crio` is not supported
- CoCo is not fully integrated with the orchestration ecosystem (Kubernetes, OpenShift)
  * OpenShift support is not yet complete.
  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
  * Container image sharing is not possible in this release
  * Container images are downloaded by the guest (with encryption), not by the host
  * As a result, the same image will be downloaded separately by every pod using it, not shared between pods on the same host. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/66)
- The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.
  * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which increased from 49% to 64% at the time of this release.
  * All CoCo repos now have automated tests, including linting, incorporated into CI.
  * Vulnerability reporting mechanisms still need to be created. Public github issues are still appropriate for this release until private reporting is established.


## CVE Fixes

None
