# Release Notes for v0.8.0

Release Date: November 10th, 2023

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for a
definition of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new

* Upstream containerd supported by all deployment types except enclave-cc.
  * This release includes the Nydus snapshotter (for the first time) to support upstream containerd.
  * In this release images are still pulled inside the guest.
  * **Nydus snapshotter requires the following annotation for each pod `io.containerd.cri.runtime-handler: <runtime-class`.**
  * Support for Nydus snapshotter in peer pods is still experimental. To avoid using it with peer pods do not set above annotation.
  * Nydus snapshotter support in general is still evolving. See limitations section below for details.
* A new component, the Confidential Data Hub (CDH) is now deployed inside the guest.
  * CDH is an evolution of the Attestation Agent that supports advanced features.
  * CDH supports sealed Kubernetes secrets which are managed by the control plane, but securely unwrapped inside the enclave.
  * CDH supports connections to both KBS and KMS.
* New architecture of Attestation Agent and CDH allows a client to deploy multiple KBSes.
  * One KBS can be used for validating evidence with the Attestation Service while another can provide resources.
* Pulling from an authenticated registry now requires `imagePullSecrets`.

**Peer Pods**
* `peerpod-ctl` tool has been expanded.
  * Can check and clean old peerpod objects
  * Adds SSH authentication support to libvirt provider
  * Supports IBM cloud
* Support for secure key release at runtime and image decryption via remote attestation on AKS
* Added AMD SEV and IBM s390x support for the Libvirt provider
* Container registry authentication now bootstrapped from userdata.
* Enabled public IP usage for pod VM on AWS and PowerVS providers
* webhook: added IBM ppc64le platform support
* Support adding custom tags to podvm instances
* Switched to launching CVM by default on AWS and Azure providers
* Added rollingUpdate strategy in cloud-api-adaptor daemonset
* Disabled secureboot by default

## Hardware Support

Confidential Containers is tested with attestation on the following platforms:

* Intel TDX
* AMD SEV(-ES)
* Intel SGX

The following platforms are untested or partially supported:

* IBM Secure Execution (SE) on IBM zSystems (s390x) running LinuxONE
* AMD SEV-SNP
* ARM CCA

## Limitations

The following are known limitations of this release:

* Nydus snapshotter support is not mature.
  * Nydus snapshot sometimes conflicts with existing node configuration.
  * You may need to remove existing container images/snapshots before installing Nydus snapshotter.
  * Nydus snapshotter may not support pulling one image with multiple runtime handler annotations even across different pods.
  * Host pulling with Nydus snapshotter is not yet enabled.
  * Nydus snapshotter is not supported with enclave-cc.
* Pulling container images inside guest may have negative performance implications including greater resource usage and slower startup.
* `crio` support is still evolving.
* Platform support is rapidly changing
  * Image signature validation with AMD SEV-ES is not covered by CI.
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* The generic KBS does not yet supported all platforms.
* The format of encrypted container images is still subject to change
  * The [oci-crypt](https://github.com/containers/ocicrypt) container image format itself may still change
  * The tools to generate images are not in their final form
  * The image format itself is subject to change in upcoming releases
  * Not all image repositories support encrypted container images.
 Complete integration with Kubernetes is still in progress.
  * OpenShift support is not yet complete.
  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.
  * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which improved to 69% at the time of this release.
  * Vulnerability reporting mechanisms still need to be created. Public github issues are still appropriate for this release until private reporting is established.
* Container metadata such as environment variables are not measured.
* Kata Agent does not validate mount requests. A malicious host might be able to mount a shared filesystem into the PodVM.

## CVE Fixes

None

